# Deep-Learning-NLP-ImageProcessing
In today’s world, where everything is moving online, ‘Hate Speech’ is becoming an area of rising concern. Unfortunately, it is really easy these days to express extreme emotions in the form of an ever increasing social media trend of creating and sharing ‘memes’. Memes use both text and image to convey strong messages which could hurt sentiments of people and promote discrimination. It has become very important to come up with innovative ways to identify and tackle this problem. Our paper focuses on exploring both unimodal and multimodal frameworks in deep learning research as a means to allow for easy identification of hateful memes. We looked into ways of improving the overall methodology beyond just fine tuning of Vision & Language models. Under unimodal approach, we experimented with models namely Roberta, Albert and DistilBert for language and ResNet, ViT, Wide Resnet and ResNext models for vision; in contrast to multimodal approach, where we experimented with VL-BERT, LXMERT, UNITER and OSCAR models. In the end, we showcase the best approach for our ‘winning model’ with Accuracy: 65.80% and AUROC score of: 72.07% and discuss the reasons for our observations and future scope of work.

The Facebook Hateful Meme dataset used in this project contains 10k memes, constructed from Getty Images with text overlaid on the image. The texts associated with each image are also provided separately. Each meme has a binary label indicating whether the meme is hateful or not. The images come with different dimensions, and can be a collage of 2-3 images. The text positions on the image are variable, which can be at the top, middle or bottom of the image. Text length and font size are variable as well. In this project, 8500 memes are used as training data, 500 memes are used as validation data during training, and a holdout set of 1000 memes are used for testing the final performance. Classes are slightly unbalanced in training data, with 35.5% positive labels. Validation data and test data has balanced classes with 49% positive labels.  
